Hello and welcome back
to the course on deep learning.
Today we're talking about ReLU,
which is a Rectified Linear Unit,
and this is an additional step
on top of our convolution step.
So it's not a separate big step, it's a small step.
It's step 1B, basically.
And what is going on here?
Well, we have our input image
and we have our Convolution Layer, which we've discussed,
and then on top of that, we're going to apply,
wait for it, our favorite Rectifier function.
And you're already familiar with the Rectified function
from the previous section on Artificial Neural Networks,
and in our, so sometimes authors or instructors separate
the Convolution and the Rectifier as two separate steps.
In our examples, we're just going
to consider them just one big step
for second Convolution, then the Rectifier.
And the reason why we're apply the Rectifier,
is because we want to increase non-linearity in our image,
or in our network, in our Convolutional neural network,
and a Rectifier acts as that filter,
or acts as that function, which breaks up linearity.
And the reason why we want to increase non-linearity
in our network is because images themselves
are highly non-linear, especially
if you're recognizing different objects next to each other,
or just on this background and stuff like that,
like the image is going to have lots of non-linear elements,
and the transition between pixels,
adjacent pixels, is often gonna be non-linear.
That's because of borders, there's different colors,
there's different elements in your images.
But at the same time,
when we're applying mathematical operations
such as convolution, and running this feature detection
to create our feature maps, we risk
that we might create something linear,
and therefore we need to break up the linearity.
So, let's have a look at an example.
Here is a imagine, an original image.
Now when we apply a feature detector to this image
we get something like this.
So you can see here that black is negative,
white is positive values.
Well, when you apply a feature detector
to a proper image, which as not just zeros and ones,
but has lots of different values
and you apply, as we saw previously,
feature detectors can have negative values in themselves.
Sometimes you will get negative values,
and here their black ones are negative,
white ones are positive.
And what a Rectified linear unit function does,
is it removes all the black, right?
Anything below zero it turns into zero,
and so from this, it turns to this, right?
And so it's pretty hard to see what exactly
is the benefit in terms of breaking up linearity.
I'll try to explain.
I'll try to show an example on this image,
but at the end of the day
this is a very mathematical concept,
and we would have to go into a lot of math to really explain
what is going on, but try this, have a look.
So, for instance, let's look
at this building here, all right?
So this is a building on its own.
Then you can see this shadow, this black part,
this shadow right here.
Well, you see that it's white, the reflection of the light,
and then it's a gray, and then it gets darker,
and then it gets darker, all right?
So, when when we take it out, we take out that black part.
So think of it in terms of linearity, right?
So it looks like when you go from white to gray,
the next step would be black, right?
The next step would be black.
It's a linear progression from bright to dark,
and therefore this is kind of like a linear situation.
When you take out the black, you break up the linearity.
Let's try another one.
Let's have a look here.
And at the same time, it's still that same building, right?
It's not like you're blending two buildings
into each other, but that is secondary.
The main point is breaking up the linearity.
So let's have a look here, same thing.
So, you see white, gray, black, gray, white,
and when you break it up,
you don't have that anymore, right?
You don't have that profession, the gradual progression
that you just have like an abrupt change,
and that helps introduce non-linearity into you image.
So it's a very rough explanation, very, kind of like,
on the fingers explanation, rather than technical,
but hopefully it kind of helps you understand
a bit better what we're talking about here.
So here again, you can see white, gray,
it's a better example even.
See bright, darker, darker, darker,
darker, darker, darker, darker.
So this part looks like it's linear,
then you break it up like that.
Again, so this is a very rough explanation.
It's not absolutely perfect,
but at least it gives you some idea of what's going on.
But if you'd like to learn more, there's a good paper.
There's always a paper, this one is by C. C. Jay Kuo,
from the University of California,
and it's called Understanding Convolutional Neural Networks
with A Mathematical Model.
And basically there he answers two questions,
and you need to just look at the first one,
and the questions why a non-linear activation function
is essential at the filter output
of all intermediate layers.
So that kind of explains it in a bit more detail,
both in terms of intuition and mostly
in terms of mathematics.
So that's an interesting paper
where you can get some more additional information
on this topic, and if you really
want to dig in and explore some cool stuff here,
then there's another paper that you might be interested in.
It's called Delving Deep
into Rectifiers: Surpassing Human-Level Performance
on ImageNet classification,
and here the authors, Kaiming He and others
from Microsoft Research.
They propose a different type
of Rectified Linear Unit function.
They propose the Parametric Rectified Linear Unit,
which you see here on the right,
and they argue that is delivers better results
without sacrificing performance.
So interesting read if you'd like
to get a bit more into this topic.
And that's all for today.
The ReLU Layer is pretty simple, pretty straight forward,
just applying the Rectified function.
And I look forward to seeing you next time,
until then, enjoy deep learning.